=head1 NAME

Geo::Proj - Handling projections

=head1 INHERITANCE

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 use Geo::Proj;

 my $wgs84 = Geo::Proj->new   # predefined if import()
  ( nick  => 'wgs84'
  , proj4 => '+proj=latlong +datum=WGS84 +ellps=WGS84'
  );

 my $clrk = Geo::Proj->new
  ( nick  => 'clark66'
  , proj4 => [proj => "merc", ellps => "clrk66", lon_0 => -96]
  );

 my $point_wgs84= Geo::Point->latlong(56.12, 4.40, 'wgs84');
 my $point_wgs84= Geo::Point->latlong(56.12, 4.40, $wgs84);

 my $point_clrk = $point_wgs84->to($clrk);
 my $point_clrk = Geo::Proj->to($clrk, $point_wgs84);
 my $point_clrk = Geo::Proj->to('clark66', $point_wgs84);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

A point on Earth's surface can be represented in many different coordinate
systems.  The L<Geo::Proj4|Geo::Proj4> module wraps the popular Open Source C<libproj>
library to convert between those coordinate systems; a very complex job.

Within a program, however, you like some extra abstraction from that
library: to be able to simply label a point to its system, and then
forget about all transformations which may be necessary.  The label (or
C<nick>) hides all complicated parameters for the actual projection .

WARNING 1: this class will collect all nicks, which means that calling
L<new()|Geo::Proj/"Constructors"> with the same label twice will have the second ignored.

WARNING 2: the wgs84 nickname is predefined, but only if this module is
'used' with import.  So if you decide to use 'require' to dynamically load
this module, then don't forget to call 'import()' yourself, or define the
wgs84 projection yourself.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Constructors

Geo::Proj-E<gt>B<new>([NICK], OPTIONS)

=over 4

Create a new object.

 Option--Default
 name    <from proj4>
 nick    <required>
 proj4   <required>
 srid    undef

. name => STRING

. nick => LABEL

=over 4

The abbrevated name for this projection.

=back

. proj4 => OBJECT|ARRAY|STRING

=over 4

The ARRAY or STRING will by used to create a L<Geo::Proj4|Geo::Proj4> object
by calling L<Geo::Proj4::new()|Geo::Proj4/"Instantiation">.  You may also specify such an
prepared OBJECT.

=back

. srid => INTEGER

=over 4

SRID stands for "Spatial Reference System ID", which is just an index
in a table of spatial descriptions as used by SQL. Only INTEGER values
larger than 0 are permitted.

=back

=back

=head2 Attributes

$obj-E<gt>B<name>

=over 4

The full, official name of the projection

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<nick>

=over 4

Simple abbreviating of the projection.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<proj4>([NICK|PROJ4])

Geo::Proj-E<gt>B<proj4>([NICK|PROJ4])

=over 4

Returns the projection library handle (a L<Geo::Proj4|Geo::Proj4>) to be used by this
component.  As class method, the NICK is specified for a lookup.  In case
a PROJ4 is specified, that is returned.

example: 

 my $wgs84 = Geo::Proj->new(nick => 'wgs84', ...);
 my $wgs84_proj4 = Geo::Proj->proj4('wgs84');
 my $wgs84_proj4 = Geo::Proj->proj4($wgs84);
 my $wgs84_proj4 = $wgs84->proj4;

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<srid>

=over 4

The "Spatial Reference System ID" if known.

=back

=head2 Projecting

Geo::Proj-E<gt>B<defaultProjection>([NICK|PROJ])

=over 4

The NICK must be defined with L<new()|Geo::Proj/"Constructors">.  Returned is the Geo::Proj object
for the default projection.  The default is the first name created,
which probably is 'wgs84' (when import() had a chance)

=back

Geo::Proj-E<gt>B<dumpProjections>([FILEHANDLE])

=over 4

Print details about the defined projections to the FILEHANDLE, which
defaults to the selected.  Especially useful for debugging.

=back

Geo::Proj-E<gt>B<listProjections>

=over 4

Returns a sorted lost of projection nicks.

=back

Geo::Proj-E<gt>B<projection>(NICK|PROJ)

=over 4

Returns the L<Geo::Proj|Geo::Proj> object, defined with NICK.  In case such an
object is passed in as PROJ, it is returned unaffected.  This method is
used where in other methods NICKS or PROJ can be used as arguments.

example: 

 my $wgs84 = Geo::Proj->projection('wgs84');
 my $again = Geo::Proj->projection($wgs84);

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<to>([PROJ|NICK], PROJ|NICK, POINT|ARRAY_OF_POINTS)

Geo::Proj-E<gt>B<to>([PROJ|NICK], PROJ|NICK, POINT|ARRAY_OF_POINTS)

=over 4

Expects an Geo::Proj to project the POINT or POINTS to.  The work
is done by L<Geo::Proj4::transform()|Geo::Proj4/"Converters">.  As class method, you have to
specify two nicks or projections.

example: 

 my $p2 = $wgs84->to('utm31-wgs84', $p1);
 my $p2 = $wgs84->to($utm, $p1);
 my $p2 = Geo::Proj->to('wgs84', 'utm31-wgs84', $p1);

=back

=head2 UTM

Geo::Proj-E<gt>B<UTMprojection>(DATUM|PROJ|undef, ZONE)

=over 4

The PROJ is a L<Geo::Proj|Geo::Proj> which is used to collect the datum
information from if no DATUM was specified explicitly.  It may also be
a string which is the name of a datum, as known by proj4.  Undef will
be replaced by the default projection.

example: 

 my $proj = Geo::Proj->UTMprojection('WGS84', 31) or die;
 print $proj->nick;    # for instance utm31-wgs84

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<bestUTMprojection>(POINT, [PROJ|NICK])

Geo::Proj-E<gt>B<bestUTMprojection>(POINT, [PROJ|NICK])

=over 4

Returns the best UTM projection for some POINT.  As class method, you
specify the nickname or the object for the point.

example: 

 my $point = Geo::Point->longlat(2.234, 52.12);
 my $proj  = Geo::Proj->bestUTMprojection($point);
 print $proj->nick;    # for instance utm31-wgs84

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<zoneForUTM>(POINT)

Geo::Proj-E<gt>B<zoneForUTM>(POINT)

=over 4

Provided some point, figure-out which zone is most optimal for representing
the point.  In LIST context, zone number, zone letter, and meridian are
returned as separate scalars.  In LIST context, the zone number and letter
are returned as one..

This code is stolen from L<Geo::Coordinates::UTM>, because that module
immediately starts to do computations with this knowledge, which is not
wanted here.  Probably a lot of zones are missing.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of Geo-Point distribution version 0.10,
built on January 21, 2009. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/geo/>
All modules in this suite:
L</Geo::Point>,
L</Geo::Proj4>,
L</Geo::WKT>,
L</Math::Polygon>,
L</Geo::GML>,
L</Geo::ISO19139>,
L</Geo::EOP>, and
L</Geo::Format::Envisat>.

Please post questions or ideas to
F<http://geo-perl@list.hut.fi|the mailinglist>

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2005-2009 by Mark Overmeer. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

